THE BAT X is going to serve as a sort of drawing board for new ideas and innovations that I’m not quite ready to replace the tried-and-true, classic version of THE BAT with yet.  Basically, it will be a set of projections that should be the best possible version of THE BAT, but which I’m not 100% certain of yet. The first of these THE BAT X innovations: Statcast data!


I’ve been meaning to fold Statcast into THE BAT since its inception, but I’ve always been too busy to find the time to do it the right way.  With the delayed start to the 2020 MLB season, however, I’ve spent the past couple months diving deep into the world of Statcast data, evaluating what stats make hitters effective, what stats are the most stable, what stats are the most predictive, how player aging impacts them, what they can tell us about a player’s intentional approach, and all kinds of fun questions like that.

I evaluated 150+ variables, starting with the basics like average launch angle and exit velocity and then evaluating various deviations and subsets of launch angles, spray angles, exit velocities, hit qualities, and so on.  League-wide HR rates spike over 20% between a launch angle of 23° and 34°?  I want to see how that predicts future home runs.  BABIPs start to plummet once the launch angle goes over 27° degrees?  Yup, let’s throw that into the mix.  What about a player’s maximum exit velocity?  Or the top 5% of his exit velocities?  Let’s see if that adds value.  Sprint speed?  Oh yeah, that’s gotta’ be in there too.

What I finally arrived at was a brand new projection system based entirely on Statcast data.  Stability and regression to the mean, weighing of multiple years of data, aging curves, the works.  But because Statcast data gives us better insight into a hitter’s intentional process-level decisions (i.e. hitters essentially have the ability to decide what kind of swing plane they want), I didn’t want to treat this exactly the same as a normal projection.  (Normally, we kind of look at what a hitter did last year, look at what he did the years before, give a bit of extra weight to the more recent data but more or less just split the difference.)  No, I wanted to know if a hitter who changes his approach is more likely to maintain that approach the following year.

Are there certain players for which last year matters more than it otherwise would?  I’m not going to go into all of the secret sauce here, but it’s safe to say that there are indeed ways to project the continuance of an approach change, which is pretty damn fantastic.  And it makes sense: if a player’s breakout last year was supported by peripherals, it should count more than if it didn’t, right?  After all, he’s going to try to do the same thing again!  The only appropriate name for this system, the only thing I could possibly think to call a projection system with THE BAT methodology and Statcast data, is… THE BATcast.  I know; it’s pretty badass.

Of course, I didn’t stop there, because as great as Statcast data is, it’s not the whole story.  Everything that goes into the classic version of THE BAT also has plenty of value, and so we really want both.  That’s where THE BAT X comes in.  I ran tests to find the optimal combination of THE BAT and THE BATcast to form a final projection: THE BAT X.

In theory (and according to back-tests I’ve run), THE BAT X is the best of the three systems.  It should be, after all, since it starts with THE BAT and layers on valuable new information.  We only have a few years of Statcast, though, and early years have some data missing.  There’s also the issue of imputed data, which THE BATcast does its best to handle.  Overall, given the small-ish sample, I’m not ready to say “This is the new THE BAT” and throw the old projections away, especially when the classic version of THE BAT has performed so well for DFS players and in season-long accuracy contests (Ariel Cohen found it to be the best non-aggregate system he tested over the past two years; at FantasyPros, it was found to be the best non-aggregate system in 2018 and the third-best in 2019 of the dozen-plus systems they tested).

Plus, keeping the original projections around affords us the added benefit of being able to compare projections for players.  It will gives us the ability to look at what a hitter is projected to do just based on surface level stats, and what he is projected to be after incorporating more advanced stats.  It could help us identify potential breakout players, players that may have fundamentally changed something about their game to make them better… or the reverse.

Take Alex Bregman.  Every projection system here on FanGraphs (including THE BAT) pegs him for a wOBA between .390 and .395 and as the fifth-best hitter in MLB.  THE BAT X, however, puts him at .381 – one of the largest negative differences for an elite hitter between THE BAT and THE BAT X.  Bregman is obviously great, and his surface numbers have been fantastic, but is he a top 5 hitter in baseball?  Probably not.

THE BAT X puts him outside the top 10.  Why?  Because his average exit velocity is only 1 mph above average.  The average of his top 5% of exit velocities is 2 mph below average.  The percentage of balls he hits above 100 mph?  7% below average.  His Barrel rate was 16% above average in 2018, but it was 25% below average in 2019.  None of that is good.

Bregman is a fantastic hitter, no doubt.  The plate discipline is elite, and Statcast mostly just tells us new information about what happens after contact.  But this is a great example of why we need both sides of this coin.  The surface numbers are probably inflated given the fairly middling Statcast peripherals, but it also seems really unlikely that Bregman is below-average based solely on those peripherals when his actual results have been so outstanding (the dude hit 41 dingers last year—that didn’t happen by chance).

There are surely things the Statcast data can’t capture that show up in the surface numbers.  THE BAT X combines the best of both worlds, and comparing it to the classic version of THE BAT will allow us to see which players may be playing over their heads and which may be underperforming and are primed for a breakout.

Of the top 20 players THE BAT X liked more than THE BAT, 15 finished 2019 with a wOBA higher than their projected wOBA in THE BAT.  On the other side, 13 finished 2019 with a wOBA lower than their projected wOBA in THE BAT.

Now, as with any system, THE BAT X is not perfect.  It is likely to have some biases.  I’ve already noticed that it seems to be lower on guys like Nolan Arenado, J.D. Martinez, and Eugenio Suarez than THE BAT every year.  Maybe these guys truly are performing over their heads a bit and they’ll come down in 2020, or maybe they’re just doing something that the Statcast data can’t capture.

But outliers and biases exist in any system, and the overall results from THE BAT X have been quite fantastic in backtesting.  Please check it out, play around with it, and see what you think.  If you notice anything or have any questions/comments/suggestions, please feel free to reach out to me.  Finding me on Twitter (@DerekCarty) is the easiest way.

If you’re interested in learning more about this stuff, I gave a presentation entitled “Statcast: Fact, Fiction, and Prediction” as part of Pitcher List’s PitchCon online quarantine conference a couple weekends ago, which you can re-watch on their YouTube.

And if you’re interested in seeing more granular data, I’ve put a lot of Statcast data up over at EV Analytics.  You can see a bunch of the more predictive Statcast variables that go into THE BAT X… both past data and projected data for each player.  You can also see correlations with that data and actual performance, both from a descriptive and predictive standpoint.

I’ve also published the intermediary system, THE BATcast, over there as well.  It’s the least valuable of the three systems, but you’ll be able to compare THE BAT, THE BATcast, and THE BAT X to see exactly how each player rates according to each method and get a better sense of what the player’s ceiling is according to Statcast.  I think this stuff is incredibly cool, and I hope you do too!

Pitching Model:
I started this project nine and a half years ago. I’ve gone through multiple outside developers, cleared countless hurdles over an unknowable number of hours, taught myself a ton about coding and modeling, and studied thousands of variables. But finally, six years after the introduction of THE BAT X for hitters, THE BAT X for pitchers is finally here!

Similar to THE BAT X for hitters, the pitcher version starts with the classic version of THE BAT (which was built long before Statcast and all the advanced metrics we have now, and mostly just makes use of surface stats) and blends in my brand new pitcher “stuff” model, which I’m calling THE BATcast. (Get it, because it’s THE BAT using Statcast data?)

When you say “stuff,” what does that mean?
I mean the physical attributes that describe a pitch. How it moves through space. Most people associate “stuff” with high velocity, loopy breaking balls, and lots of whiffs. While stuff can manifest that way, good stuff doesn’t necessarily mean a high strikeout rate. THE BATcast model is actually tons of separate models put together, each one predicting a different aspect of the game for a different type of pitch. I’m predicting strikeouts based on stuff, yes, but I’m also predicting walk rate, homers, BABIP, etc. So when people are outraged that Framber Valdez makes the top 10 on THE BATcast list, they need to understand that we aren’t just talking about swings and misses here. And the variables that describe stuff go beyond the obvious velocity, movement, etc. that is clear for everyone to see.

What goes into THE BATcast, and what makes it different from Stuff+/PitchingBot?
Part of the reason this took so long to build is because I didn’t want to just reinvent the wheel. The stuff systems that began popping up during that 9 1/2-year span (like Stuff+ and PitchingBot) are great. If I was going to keep trying to build something, I knew it had to be unique somehow, or else what was the point? I could just use an existing system and integrate it into my projections.

As a starting point, THE BATcast includes all the variables you’d come to expect from a stuff model: velocity, movement, spin. It incorporates newer advances like seam-shifted wake and pitch mirroring and approach angles. It looks at the interactions between a pitch and the pitcher’s primary fastball (i.e. not just how fast his slider is, but also the velocity differential between the fastball and the slider). It accounts for different pitches being better or worse against hitters of a certain handedness. None of this is new ground, though. Without giving too much away, I think there are three main things (as far as I know) that THE BATcast is doing that others aren’t yet and that I’m comfortable sharing.

For one, while it uses these basic variables, it also runs them through a set of adjustments to try and squeeze more information out of them. For example, a slider from a side-arm pitcher may have more movement than one thrown over the top, but the batter is likely expecting this based on the arm angle, so that extra movement may not actually help. THE BATcast adjusts to try and account for unexpected movement, movement beyond what would be expected of a pitch given the arm angle, velocity, etc.

THE BATcast also includes tunneling variables. Tunneling is a fun word that’s been thrown around a lot in recent years, but I feel like it’s used as a catch-all to mean a number of different things that aren’t truly tunneling. I’ve heard it used to describe release point differential or movement differential or different things like that. But when I use the word tunneling, I’m talking about looking at the full trajectory of a given pitch and comparing it to the trajectory of the pitcher’s other offerings. Does the pitch hide inside the path of the fastball to make it harder for the batter to pick it up? For how much of the path does it hide, and just how hidden is it? Does it stay inside that path up until a certain point and then sharply deviate, after a hitter has already had to make a decision about the pitch? In other words, how similar do the pitcher’s pitches look to each other at various points or ranges along the trajectory, and how does that deceive the batter?

The third thing that I think separates THE BATcast from other systems is it attempts to account for bridge pitches. The most common bridge pitch is a cutter. It bridges the gap between a pitcher’s fastball and the slider, so that instead of being able to look for two distinct shapes, the batter now has to look for three shapes that all sort of blur together. Instead of a fastball running left and the slider running right, if there’s a cutter in the middle that can do a bit of both, now you’ve created this wide range of possible movements for a pitch, making it much tougher for the batter to identify what’s coming. Even if the cutter itself isn’t good, simply having it can make the slider and the fastball better. So similar to tunneling, I looked at the trajectories of different pitches throughout a pitcher’s repertoire and a whole host of variables therein to try and account for bridge pitches.

That sounds like a lot of stuff…
It is a lot of stuff (no pun intended). Because I’m looking at the full trajectory of pitches, there winds up being hundreds or thousands of tunneling and bridging variables to describe a single pitch. All told, the system evaluates roughly 4,000 variables and narrows them down to the most impactful from there.

Why does THE BATcast like Player X more than Stuff+/PitchingBot?
As I said, the process for building THE BATcast begins with 4,000 variables, with each describing something about a given pitch, before the modeling process whittles those down to the most important ones. But with the power of machine learning comes the frustration of its black-box nature. It can deliver accuracy and results, but it’s much harder to put our finger on why it came up with a given result. We can do our best to interpret, but there are no clear answers to these types of questions, unfortunately.

Why does THE BAT X like Player Y more than THE BAT?
The simple answer is it likes something about his stuff more than his surface numbers. Because of the black-box methodology, it may not be easy to identify exactly what it likes, though.